NOTICE OF CHANGE OF COMPANY NAMEFor the purposes of sections 107(2) and 770(2) of Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)Notes for Completion of Form NNC2      Introduction      1. Where a company passes a special resolution changing its name pursuant to section 107(2) of the Companies Ordinance, the company must deliver a notice of the change of its name in this form to the Registrar of Companies (the Registrar) for registration within 15 days after the date of passing the resolution. Where a company passes a special resolution changing its name pursuant to section 770(2) of the Companies Ordinance, the company must give notice of the change of its name in this form to the Registrar within 28 days after the restoration of the company.2. The special resolution for change of company name is not required for filing with the Companies Registry.3. Traditional Chinese characters should be used if the form is completed in Chinese.  Please note that handwritten forms may be rejected by the Companies Registry.4. Please complete the Presentor's Reference.  Unless the presentor needs to raise a specific issue for the attention of the Companies Registry, no covering letter is required.5.	This form can be delivered by post or in person to "The Companies Registry, 14th floor, Queensway Government Offices, 66 Queensway, Hong Kong".  If the form is delivered by post but the Registrar has not received it, the form will not be regarded as having been delivered to the Registrar in satisfaction of the relevant provision of the Companies Ordinance. Fee6.	This form must be delivered with the correct registration fee.  A form which is not delivered with the correct fee will be rejected by the Companies Registry.  Please refer to the information pamphlet on ‘Price Guide to Main Services’ for the correct fee payable.  If the fee is paid by cheque, the cheque should be crossed and issued in Hong Kong Dollars payable to ‘Companies Registry’.  Please do not send cash.Signature7.	This form must be signed by a director or the company secretary.  A form which is not properly signed will be rejected by the Companies Registry.Existing Company Name(s) (Section 1)8.	If the company has an English and a Chinese name, please state the names in the appropriate boxes.  If the company does not have any English or Chinese name, please insert 'NIL' in the appropriate box.Intended Company Name(s) (Section 3)9. If the company wishes to retain its existing English or Chinese name, such name must be stated in the appropriate box.  If the company does not have any English or Chinese name after change of name, please insert 'NIL' in the appropriate box.